---
title: What is the difference between a static site generator and CMS?
layout: default
parent: Static Sites Generators (SSGs)
nav_order: 2
permalink: /ssg/vs-cms/
---

# What is the difference between a static site generator and CMS?

In the early days of the Internet, websites were stored as static HTML sites, with all webpages laid out and hard coded in advance. This was inefficient because it required developers to code each webpage manually.

Content management systems (CMS) emerged as a way for developers to avoid all that manual setup. Instead of coding the pages ahead of time, content is stored in CMS database, and when a user requests a page, the server does the following:

- Queries the database for the right content

- Identifies the template the content will fit into

- Generates the page

- Serves the page to the user

Content in the CMS has to fit in one of the fields offered by the CMS database, but as long as it does, it should appear in its proper place on the website every time.

A static site generator is a compromise between these two approaches. Like CMS, it allows developers to use templates and automatically generates webpages — but it does the latter ahead of time, instead of in response to a user's request. This makes for faster website performance, because the webpages are instantly ready for delivery to end users. It also offers greater customization to developers, since they are not limited by the database fields offered by the CMS.
