---
title: What are the pros and cons of using a static site generator?
layout: default
parent: Static Sites Generators (SSGs)
nav_order: 3
permalink: /ssg/pros-and-cons/
---

# What are the pros and cons of using a static site generator?

Static site generators offer several benefits. Due to the fact that static sites do not require server-side processing, they are fast and lightweight. The result is that they can be served quickly, regardless of the speed of the connection. Additionally, static sites are more secure since they do not require server-side scripts, which can be hacked. Furthermore, static sites do not require a database or server-side scripts, so they are easy to maintain and scale.

<u>Pros</u>

- Performance: Because static site generators create webpages in advance instead of "on demand" (as with CMS), webpages load slightly faster in users' browsers.

- Customization: Developers can create any template they want. They are not limited by the fields provided by CMS, nor by CMS's built-in templates.

- Lighter backend: Static websites are lightweight and do not require so much code to run on the server side, whereas CMS-based websites constantly query the server side for content.

<u>Cons</u>

- Few or no pre-built templates: The downside of unlimited customization is that it can take longer to get started. Many static site generators do not come with templates, and developers will have to spend a lot of time building them from scratch at first.

- No user-friendly interface: It is harder for non-developer users to publish content using a static site generator. There is no CMS interface, and working with raw unformatted data may be intimidating for users. In addition, developer support is often necessary for making website updates.
